Simon Wang: Alright, testing, testing. So,
Simon Wang: This is week 4, and you know, we're recording this, so if you want to catch up, you can watch the video.
Simon Wang: And before we, talk about today's in-class exercise and some of the
Simon Wang: you know, mass tools for this course. I want to just very quickly go through this, article.
Simon Wang: As you can see.
Simon Wang: You know, as the title suggests, there are fewer jobs, available for the university graduates
Simon Wang: Last year, so according to
Simon Wang: the data. But the immediate question we have to ask when we read the title and also go through the question is, where is the data? What is the evidence that, supports
Simon Wang: the claim that there are 55% less or fewer jobs for the university graduates in Hong Kong.
Simon Wang: And, if you go through this article, you found that, actually, the data comes from this, what we call the Joint Institution Job Information System.
Simon Wang: And then, if you search for that, you find that, actually, this is a job portal
Simon Wang: Primarily for, university graduates or students.
Simon Wang: for the 8 publicly funded universities, okay? Well, that's very useful information, because for one thing, you know, just in case you don't know this platform, you should check it out. But then at the same time, when we,
Simon Wang: You know, become aware of this fact, the data coming from this platform, then we need to start asking questions.
Simon Wang: Right? Because, you know, this course is about data analysis, right? And we need to be very, kind of sensitive about how data is being used to make
Simon Wang: Arguments and to tell stories.
Simon Wang: So…
Simon Wang: I think this is a question I won't answer, but I would encourage everybody to think about this a little bit. To what extent we can really use the data from this particular platform to draw a conclusion regarding
Simon Wang: the number of jobs available for Hong Kong graduates, right?
Simon Wang: You know, because just use your common sense, you can see that people who can use this platform
Simon Wang: like, the graduates or students from these eight universities are not necessarily… it's clearly not the entire population of the Hong Kong graduates, university graduates, because we also have other, like, self-financed institutions, you know, students who
Simon Wang: who studied there and graduate from those institutions, and also students who graduated from other universities, from other parts of the world, and maybe they will come back and join the job market in Hong Kong.
Simon Wang: as well. And, you know, jobs here are not for them, and not really kind of available for… at least the information is not available through this platform. But maybe the same set of employers could be publishing the same jobs in other platforms, right?
Simon Wang: So, so in a way, I feel that the journalist, the reporter, is a little bit misleading in the sense that, you know.
Simon Wang: Of course, it's probably a matter of convenience. He can only gather data from this particular site, so that's what he's got, so he just writes this article. But it raises some really important questions for us, because in this course, we are concerned about making decisions and formulate policies.
Simon Wang: You know.
Simon Wang: you know, from the government's perspective. And, you know, university graduates' job prospects is a major concern, right? I'm sure that a lot of people in the government would be very interested in this issue.
Simon Wang: So that becomes… that raises the question, you know, where can we get more reliable data about the job markets, about the number of jobs available?
Simon Wang: For the university graduates. So, again, I don't have a good answer to that.
Simon Wang: But I think this news article would give us a great opportunity to reflect on these issues and to explore and think about how data can be managed more effectively to answer questions like this.
Simon Wang: And then there's another question, another issue I want to… I want to raise, which is, you know, I think this is actually covered in the… in the news as well.
Simon Wang: people believe, and I also agree, that one of the reasons why, one of the major reasons why there are fewer jobs available for fresh graduates, or young people in general, is because of AI. It's because of artificial intelligence.
Simon Wang: And, you know, I actually know this firsthand, because I've been using AI Agent, and I'll probably do a little bit of demo today or next week.
Simon Wang: you can see that AI agents can actually do a very competent job, probably a better job than most university graduates, fresh graduates, with little experience on the job.
Simon Wang: So, I would understand… I would, kind of understand why, employers nowadays, the companies, would prefer start using AI, rather than spending the money to hire the fresh graduates.
Simon Wang: Right? So, so it's a very, kind of, practical choice.
Simon Wang: they have to make. But then that raises a host of other questions, including how we should revise our curriculum and train our students in a way that they will become more competent AI users, but then at the same time, how the government needs to respond and start
Simon Wang: Doing something to ensure that the university graduates and the young people still will have a job.
Simon Wang: Because if they cannot start somewhere to receive their training, and they won't have the opportunity to become professionals later.
Simon Wang: Right? So that's another kind of issue. But all these issues need data, right? We need better data to understand the issue first before the government, before the university management can make informed decisions on these important issues. That's actually the reason why we need this course like this.
Simon Wang: To, to, think about how data can inform our decisions.
Simon Wang: Alright, so I hope this… this new, kind of, it's only a two days old article, would,
Simon Wang: Give us some fresh perspective on, you know, what we've been talking about, and hopefully we can continue our discussion.
Simon Wang: Alright, so… Now, we have our… let me see, I think the slides…
Simon Wang: Let me check…
Simon Wang: I have no idea. Let me double check. So, do you have a slides on your computer? You can use that.
Simon Wang: Why?
Simon Wang: Okay, so before we start the topic today, which is about using simulation to simulate the public transportation, maybe let me briefly recap what we discussed last time.
Simon Wang: Yeah, so last time we focused on the case study about, analyzing the, Questionnaire.
Simon Wang: Questions to try to,
Simon Wang: Find the potential influencing factors about this municipal solid waste charging scheme.
Simon Wang: So the method we use is linear regression, where we find the perceived
Simon Wang: I think it's the, government consideration.
Simon Wang: I think the result is at the end.
Simon Wang: So the key predictors for the level of support of this policy is the perceived government responsiveness.
Simon Wang: Where the coefficient is around 0.5,
Simon Wang: And also the perceived policy fairness.
Simon Wang: So in total, these two factors approximately, explained around 61% of the variance of the level of support.
Simon Wang: And I also, read your, like, in-class exercises. So, recall that in the in-class exercises, we basically have two types of tasks.
Simon Wang: The first task is to do some, data visualization.
Simon Wang: Whereas the second is to feed the linear regression model.
Simon Wang: And regarding the data visualization, I actually observed
Simon Wang: the, visualization like this. Let me find that one.
Simon Wang: So some of the data visualization look like this. I believe this is generated by, or suggested by GitHub Copilot.
Simon Wang: So it actually shows the scatter plot between the perceived fairness and the level of support.
Simon Wang: But these type of, figure…
Simon Wang: Looks a little bit weird, right?
Simon Wang: It only shows certain dots, For example, for example, this dot on the left bottom corner
Simon Wang: It means that some people
Simon Wang: Rates the, some people rated the perceived fairness of this policy as, very unfair.
Simon Wang: And, at the same time, they strongly, oppose this policy.
Simon Wang: Right, so this top… this dot.
Simon Wang: Represent those group of people holding this, attitude.
Simon Wang: And this dot…
Simon Wang: represent some people's belief that this policy is really unfair, and at the same time, they oppose this Policy.
Simon Wang: But… We actually don't know how many people are here.
Simon Wang: We don't know the exact number of people who, who hold this
Simon Wang: Perceived fairness and believe that, they, they, they do, do not support this policy.
Simon Wang: So… Here only shows the possible combinations of these two variables.
Simon Wang: But… Of course, this is not informative, as mentioned, because we don't know how many people are
Simon Wang: Actually stacked on each of these points, because if there are 10 people having this kind of combination of these two variables, or 20 people who have these combinations, they are all represented by the same dot.
Simon Wang: This is not informative.
Simon Wang: And the reason is that Both the level of support and fairness, they are categorical variable.
Simon Wang: They only have, like, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, these 5 possible options.
Simon Wang: This is called categorical.
Simon Wang: And regarding the visualization of categorical variable, it will be more informative to use bar chart rather than the scatterplot.
Simon Wang: So here shows a positive example.
Simon Wang: To suppose we combine these strongly opposed and opposed people to become one group, It is called Oppose.
Simon Wang: Whereas the strongly support and support, we again combine these two groups as only one group, which is called support.
Simon Wang: And we can actually use this bar chart to see…
Simon Wang: In each level of the perceived fairness, What's the percent of people
Simon Wang: Opposed this policy, or support this policy.
Simon Wang: So you can see that for those who perceive that this policy is really unfair.
Simon Wang: 100% of them opposed this policy.
Simon Wang: Similarly, if…
Simon Wang: people perceive that this policy is quite fair. So, say, rate the level of fairness as 4, then the percentage of people who oppose this policy will become
Simon Wang: A smaller percentage, like, only 11.4.
Simon Wang: percent.
Simon Wang: And it's quite clear that with the increase of this level of fairness, The overall percentage of opposed
Simon Wang: Of opposing this policy decrease, right?
Simon Wang: And similarly, for the percentage of support, it increases with the increase of the perceived fairness.
Simon Wang: So this figure is, I would say more informative compared to the previous scatter plot.
Simon Wang: Because the nature of the variable is categorical rather than continuous.
Simon Wang: I think I… I read some of the visualizations showing the, with the increase of perceived fairness, how
Simon Wang: Level of support changes.
Simon Wang: I think… There are, students showing with the increase of level of education.
Simon Wang: With the increase of level of education, how the percentage of support,
Simon Wang: changes. That is also a good idea, using the bar chart to show
Simon Wang: Whether it's, the level of support increases or decreases with the
Simon Wang: With the, increase of level of education.
Simon Wang: So this is one thing about the, in-class exercise one, about the visualization.
Simon Wang: And regarding the regression part, I think one of the questions is.
Simon Wang: Are the results based on forward and backward regression the same or not?
Simon Wang: And the… the answer is, they are… they are the same. So no matter you use,
Simon Wang: The so-called forward way to select the potential factors that will influence the level of support, or you select backward methods.
Simon Wang: The output will be same, that the only two factors that will influence the level of support will be the perceived responsiveness from the government and also the perceived fairness.
Simon Wang: So that is the, answer for the in-class exercise one.
Simon Wang: And…
Simon Wang: Today, we will move on to the second case study, which is about evaluating the efficiency of bus road adjustment using city bus number 56 as an example.
Simon Wang: So previously, we talked about regression, which can be used to
Simon Wang: Study the relationship between variables or among a group of variables.
Simon Wang: But now, we are trying to use simulation to simulate a relatively complex system.
Simon Wang: And we can foresee what will happen if we change some of the key parameters in this system.
Simon Wang: So here is the structure of today's case study. We will first talk about the background of this bus number 56.
Simon Wang: And then consider the random component in the simulation.
Simon Wang: So usually, we, simulate the, real world, but there will be certain, random components in it. So for each simulation, certain…
Simon Wang: Certain settings will be different.
Simon Wang: from the previous one. We do a lot of simulations, say 100 times, and then we take average and see the trend.
Simon Wang: Then how we would, interpret the result and the corresponding inquiries
Simon Wang: that, we can conclude, so that we will, ask the Transport Department about the
Simon Wang: The service adjustment to this bus number 56.
Simon Wang: And for the last part, we will have this in-class exercise.
Simon Wang: So here we have some, background, information. So suppose, the bus service in certain areas need to be adjusted.
Simon Wang: Then, what's the flow of this, adjustment?
Simon Wang: So, basically, every year, the franchised bus companies will submit annual bus road planning programs to the Transport Department.
Simon Wang: For example, I think for this year, because
Simon Wang: the northern part of Hong Kong will be developed as the new center of the city. So, there are many new lands, they are developed, and it is estimated that there are, over
Simon Wang: 220,000 people will move to the new northern part of Hong Kong.
Simon Wang: And to cope with the, potential, transportation challenges.
Simon Wang: The, bus company have already submitted their annual bus road planning program to the
Simon Wang: to the Transport Department, I think at the end of last year.
Simon Wang: to, hopefully to increase the number of bus roads in the northern part of Hong Kong, like Fenlang and, Shuan Shui.
Simon Wang: So once the bus company submits these road planning programs, then the transportation department
Simon Wang: Would review those proposals, and also consult with the relevant district councils.
Simon Wang: So… For the northern part, it will be the northern district councils.
Simon Wang: Especially for those major changes.
Simon Wang: And once they decide that the new adjustments need to be implemented.
Simon Wang: The implementation often begins on a temporary basis, allowing up to 24 months of operation without permanent legislative changes.
Simon Wang: And the last step will be, legislative procedures.
Simon Wang: When the road changes need to be made permanent beyond that 24 months temporary period.
Simon Wang: So that's the overall workflow for, like, adding or adjusting bus services.
Simon Wang: So here we can see that this is the, a screenshot of the, North District Council.
Simon Wang: And on their website, if we choose the committee meetings, discussion papers.
Simon Wang: Specifically under this Traffic and Transport Committee, we can see that there are some bus road planning programs for their, discussion.
Simon Wang: And… This page shows the criteria for increasing bus frequency.
Simon Wang: So I think we have seen this before, so there must be a criteria to, to refer to when we want to increase the bus
Simon Wang: service.
Simon Wang: So, based on the,
Simon Wang: the document from the Transport Department For individual bus roads, If the passenger load factor
Simon Wang: So, so far, there's no clear explanation about the meaning of this passenger load factor.
Simon Wang: Reaches 90% during the busiest half hour.
Simon Wang: And 75% during the busiest hour of peak periods.
Simon Wang: Or 60% during the busiest hour of off-peak periods.
Simon Wang: Then the department and the franchised bus company will consider increasing the service frequency.
Simon Wang: So that's the, criteria.
Simon Wang: I think, we may simply regard this passenger load factor As the seed utilization rate, Off the bus.
Simon Wang: Say there are, in total, 10 people on the bus.
Simon Wang: And we use 10 to divide the total capacity, or total number of seats.
Simon Wang: on the bus.
Simon Wang: So that we can calculate a seat utilization rate.
Simon Wang: But by doing this kind of simplification, we cannot consider those who are standing.
Simon Wang: There are… there will be people who… who stand on the bus rather than sitting there.
Simon Wang: But to simplify the situation, we may just regard this passage
Simon Wang: Load factor as the seat utilization rate of the buses.
Simon Wang: However, according to the Bus Road Planning Program 2024-2025 for North District.
Simon Wang: Specifically for this bus road number 56.
Simon Wang: It turns out that based on this, record, The passenger load factor.
Simon Wang: During the busiest one hour.
Simon Wang: It's only 32%.
Simon Wang: But still, they propose to have an adjustment to this bus number 6.
Simon Wang: So that will lead to some questions.
Simon Wang: So this 32% is actually far away from the criteria, right? From this 90%, which is…
Simon Wang: clearly written out in the, in the, document from the Department of Transportation.
Simon Wang: So, I think there are 4 questions that we could ask.
Simon Wang: Given this information.
Simon Wang: So the first question is, how is this passenger load factor is defined? So there's no… clear definition.
Simon Wang: On the document.
Simon Wang: And also, when the busiest hour occurs.
Simon Wang: Because, so that business hour might be different for different bus roads.
Simon Wang: Especially for buses in North Pat, which is quite far away from the center of city.
Simon Wang: So, there's no specific record about, when this business hour happens.
Simon Wang: And whether this 32% represents an average across different bus stops, and also across different shifts.
Simon Wang: So we know that for some bus stops, because they are near the MTR station.
Simon Wang: Or they are near the, facilities, public facilities, like the, public hospital.
Simon Wang: So it is more likely that for those peak bus stops, the,
Simon Wang: the percentage of CT fisation will be higher Compared to those small stops.
Simon Wang: Whereas, say, far away from the MTR stations.
Simon Wang: So then, is this 32% an average, or a median, or what exactly this… how… how exactly this 32% is calculated?
Simon Wang: Right.
Simon Wang: It's not clear.
Simon Wang: And how an increase in bus frequency is justified, given the passenger load factor of 32%.
Simon Wang: So, do they have any study?
Simon Wang: about… Doing some prediction.
Simon Wang: About the increase of bus frequency.
Simon Wang: How… to what extent the increase of bus frequency will further lower down this 32%?
Simon Wang: and to… To… to 1%.
Simon Wang: It's not clear.
Simon Wang: So we want to use the simulation method to, set up a model and… and try to, foresee, or try to predict.
Simon Wang: how this 32%, if it is defined as the city utilization rate, will be different
Simon Wang: If the bus frequency is increased.
Simon Wang: So here shows the, map.
Simon Wang: Of the, previous, road off bus number 56, and the newly proposed one.
Simon Wang: So this blue, solid line, or curve, represents the current city bus road number 56,
Simon Wang: And the proposed one is presented… is, denoted by this, Dashed lines, red lines.
Simon Wang: So you can see that not only the frequency is different, the road itself is also different.
Simon Wang: So we have a table to summarize the key change of this bus road adjustment.
Simon Wang: So there are two directions. The forward direction is Su Xiang Shui, and the return direction is 2 to Mu.
Simon Wang: So if we look at the forward direction first, the total driving distance actually increased Around 1 kilometers.
Simon Wang: And the server's time is, kind of prolonged.
Simon Wang: And also, some extra serving… service time, like the, PM…
Simon Wang: peak hour from 6 to 8. For these periods of time, there will be buses.
Simon Wang: So previously, there's no, service during this Period of time.
Simon Wang: And also, forward to Shanshui, for public holidays, the bus will also operate.
Simon Wang: And regarding the hatway, previously, the hat way.
Simon Wang: Which is the time interval between two,
Simon Wang: To… to, consecutive buses is 30 minutes.
Simon Wang: But now, this headway is decreased to 20 minutes per shift in the mornings.
Simon Wang: So, that means the,
Simon Wang: The service frequency, the overall operation frequency is increased.
Simon Wang: In the morning peak hours.
Simon Wang: And the number of stops are, are the same, 11 stops.
Simon Wang: Whereas for the return, trip?
Simon Wang: The total, driving distance is also increased a little bit.
Simon Wang: And the service time… It's almost the same for the daytime.
Simon Wang: But for the,
Simon Wang: 4 p.m, for, I think night… night shift, there is, extra services from around 8 o'clock to around 10 o'clock.
Simon Wang: 8 to 10 p.m.
Simon Wang: Plus the public holidays.
Simon Wang: And the frequency does not change. It's still 20 minutes per shift.
Simon Wang: But the number of stops increased.
Simon Wang: From 10 to 12.
Simon Wang: So that's the summary of, how the bus stop
Simon Wang: How the bus operation, time changes.
Simon Wang: So our objective is to develop and analyze a simulation of bus road number 56 operations during the morning.
Simon Wang: So this is the scope. We only focus on the morning part.
Simon Wang: And specifically, we focus on the forward direction, because the headway decreased.
Simon Wang: And we want to know, with the increase of the operating… operation frequency.
Simon Wang: How exactly the seed utilization rate will change.
Simon Wang: Then the data is actually from field data.
Simon Wang: So, dating back to, to,
Simon Wang: To this study, the student,
Simon Wang: He took the bus for, like, several times, and collected the passenger flow data based on observation.
Simon Wang: And also, the estimated arrival times from the data.gov.hk.
Simon Wang: So this so-called ETA data, the estimated arrival times, this is real-time data.
Simon Wang: can be retrieved via API from this data.gov.hk.
Simon Wang: So by retrieving the, this ETA data, we will be able to know when this bus arrives at each stop.
Simon Wang: For this, For this road, number 56.
Simon Wang: And we will assess and just the justification for road and frequency adjustment.
Simon Wang: To this bus number 56 by estimating the seat utilization rate via simulation.
Simon Wang: So recall that at the very beginning, when they proposed this bus road change, they want to further decrease the seat utilization rate, right?
Simon Wang: Then we want to use the simulation to justify this kind of adjustment.
Simon Wang: And then, to provide evidence-based policy inquiries, to the, Department of Transportation.
Simon Wang: Okay, so this is, kind of a recap of the simulation design.
Simon Wang: So, simulation is basically about mimicking the complex systems.
Simon Wang: Normally, over time, using some logic, math, and also computers.
Simon Wang: So previously, I also showed this, visualization of simulations, so the bus.
Simon Wang: We'll, say, set out at… 10… 9, 10.
Simon Wang: So there is a clock, and with time pass.
Simon Wang: We would observe that there is a bus taking passengers along this, direction.
Simon Wang: And for each stop, we can calculate the real time seed utilization.
Simon Wang: And then, summarize the result.
Simon Wang: So this will be what a simulation looks like.
Simon Wang: To do the simulation, we need to clarify the so-called random components in the simulation.
Simon Wang: Recall that our key metric for this task is the CT utilization rate.
Simon Wang: So basically, we need to count the number of passengers on bus at each bus stop.
Simon Wang: So then that… process, you could imagine that when the bus arrives at certain bus stops.
Simon Wang: Some passengers will get on the bus.
Simon Wang: Or at the same time, other passengers might get off the bus.
Simon Wang: Then we have a new number of passengers on the bus, and then divided by the total number of seats on the bus.
Simon Wang: So that we can calculate the seat utilization rate.
Simon Wang: For this stop.
Simon Wang: For a specific stop.
Simon Wang: then… How many passengers will be at the bus stop?
Simon Wang: Well, we have assumption that people come to the bus stop in a, like, a fixed rate.
Simon Wang: I know this assumption is a little bit, unrealistic.
Simon Wang: But by doing this, we can make use of the field data. Say, I took the bus.
Simon Wang: And at each bus, At each bus stop.
Simon Wang: I can count the number of people waiting there.
Simon Wang: And then I consider the traveling time from previous bus stop to this bus stop.
Simon Wang: Say, it took, like, 10 minutes.
Simon Wang: To arrive at this bus stop.
Simon Wang: And if there are 10 passengers waiting at this bus stop.
Simon Wang: I could assume that at this bus stop, for every one minute, there will be a one passenger.
Simon Wang: Arrive at this bus stop.
Simon Wang: So this is kind of a simplification of, modeling the passenger flow.
Simon Wang: Then the travel time between each pair of bus stops
Simon Wang: We could regard it as random.
Simon Wang: Because for some days, if the traffic is quite good, then the traveling time will be shorter, right, between a pair of bus stops.
Simon Wang: Whereas for some, for some time.
Simon Wang: Say, if there is a,
Simon Wang: If there are certain, conjection.
Simon Wang: Then the traveling time between two bus stops will be longer.
Simon Wang: Compared to the normal time.
Simon Wang: So, I can assume that the traveling time between each pair of the bus stop is random.
Simon Wang: But overall, if I use the API data to, say, have a record.
Simon Wang: Of the traveling time between two bus stops.
Simon Wang: I can collect, say, 30, that kind of data, and then I can take average.
Simon Wang: And very likely that the traveling time will be, quite close.
Simon Wang: To this average traveling time between the two bus stops.
Simon Wang: So I can add some… small, random components.
Simon Wang: to this average.
Simon Wang: And for each simulation, I just randomly draw.
Simon Wang: A, random number from this,
Simon Wang: so-called normal distribution. We will talk about it later.
Simon Wang: And also, at each stop, the number of waiting passengers is also random.
Simon Wang: So this… this is, I think this…
Simon Wang: It's also reasonable, because the people who… who take the same bus every day will not be exactly the same.
Simon Wang: As mentioned, if you have earlier class, you may decide to take, Take bus earlier this morning.
Simon Wang: But if you do not have morning classes, you may not take the same bus.
Simon Wang: During morning time.
Simon Wang: So the number of waiting passengers is, kind of random. It can be different.
Simon Wang: Today, compared to tomorrow, compared to tomorrow.
Simon Wang: And also, at each stop, the number of passengers getting off is random.
Simon Wang: I think this is also a reasonable assumption.
Simon Wang: So people are not, getting off at the same bus stop.
Simon Wang: I mean, the number of passengers getting off each day may not be exactly the same.
Simon Wang: So, let's look at these three random components one by one.
Simon Wang: So, regarding the travel time.
Simon Wang: The bus travel time between each pair of the stops is modeled as a random variable, or random number.
Simon Wang: Drawn from a normal distribution.
Simon Wang: With the mean and standard deviation estimated from the sample data.
Simon Wang: So suppose we use this API,
Simon Wang: And collected this estimated time of arrival.
Simon Wang: At each stop for 30 trips of bus number 56.
Simon Wang: So, for example, here shows 4 bus stops.
Simon Wang: Tington Estate, Nova Land.
Simon Wang: So suppose I care about the traveling time between these two stops.
Simon Wang: By using this ETA data, I can have Like, for 30 trips.
Simon Wang: Of course, number 56, How long it takes.
Simon Wang: to drive from Tainting Estate to… to Nova Land.
Simon Wang: Then, with this 30, 30 time duration data, like…
Simon Wang: Suppose the first data is,
Simon Wang: 3 minutes, the second is 3 minutes and 10 seconds, the third data is, like, 2 minutes and 50 seconds, so on and so forth.
Simon Wang: I can calculate the average, And also the standard deviation of the traveling times between these two bus stops.
Simon Wang: And later in the simulation, I just sample
Simon Wang: The travel times from this corresponding normal distributions.
Simon Wang: So as long as I know the average traveling time, And also the standard deviation.
Simon Wang: as long as I know these two key parameters.
Simon Wang: I can draw random numbers from this normal distribution with these two parameters.
Simon Wang: So specifically in Python, It is a one-line comment.
Simon Wang: So I can use this, MP, so this is the library.
Simon Wang: and .random, I want to draw a random number.
Simon Wang: from normal distribution.
Simon Wang: With the two parameters.
Simon Wang: the mean… It's the average of this 30, 30 time durations.
Simon Wang: traveling from Saintine to Neverland.
Simon Wang: And the standard deviation, which is also calculated based on my 30 samples.
Simon Wang: So by writing this, This value will be, will be the, random time.
Simon Wang: that is drawn from this, distribution. So for each time, I will draw one, so that I will use this,
Simon Wang: drawn… Random number to represent the traveling time between these two bus stops.
Simon Wang: I can also do this for the remaining pairs of bus stops, so that overall I can have, the traveling time between each pair of the bus stops.
Simon Wang: And the next random component is the number of waiting passengers.
Simon Wang: So, so the number of waiting passengers, this must be a… an integer, right? We cannot have, like, 1.5 passengers.
Simon Wang: And there is, a commonly used distribution to model the number of…
Simon Wang: Like, events happened within a, unit time interval.
Simon Wang: So that distribution is called Poisson distribution.
Simon Wang: And there's one key parameter in this distribution.
Simon Wang: Which represents the average number of occurrence in the time interval.
Simon Wang: And this can also be estimated by the field observation.
Simon Wang: So suppose I want to know for this bus stop number 2.
Simon Wang: I want to know the number of waiting passengers.
Simon Wang: So, I did field study, for the first time, when I arrive At the bus stop 2,
Simon Wang: It took me 10 minutes to travel from bus stop 1 to bus stop 2.
Simon Wang: And it turns out that there are 5 people waiting at bus stop 2.
Simon Wang: So this is the first observation.
Simon Wang: And for the second time, when I, like, set out from stop one, and then traveled like… 15 minutes.
Simon Wang: To arrive at stop 2, And it turns out that there are 8 passengers waiting at stop 2.
Simon Wang: So I have the second record, so on and so forth.
Simon Wang: And based on these observations, I can calculate the arrival rate for each observation.
Simon Wang: the way I calculate
Simon Wang: This rate is just to use the number of people to divide the traveling time.
Simon Wang: So I would suppose that people, on average, come…
Simon Wang: Like, in 2 minutes. So, when 2 minutes passed, one passenger will arrive at stop 2.
Simon Wang: And on average, after another 2 minutes, the second passengers… the second passenger come arrived at the second bus stop, so on and so forth.
Simon Wang: So the arrival rates Of the passengers will be 0.5, 0.53, 0.5, 0.5.
Simon Wang: Because for a 12 minutes interval, 6 people.
Simon Wang: Came to the bus stop, or arrived at the bus stop.
Simon Wang: So basically, average 2 minutes.
Simon Wang: There will be one passenger coming, too.
Simon Wang: to this.
Simon Wang: Bus stop number 2.
Simon Wang: So, in other words, In every one minute.
Simon Wang: On average, there will be 0.5 passengers.
Simon Wang: So that is an average.
Simon Wang: And with this, I can, draw a random number.
Simon Wang: Following poison distribution with this average rate.
Simon Wang: And again, if we use Python to do this random number generation.
Simon Wang: It's quite, straightforward, only one line as well.
Simon Wang: So, this lambda rate Equals to np.mean, so we set the arrays as what we have calculated.
Simon Wang: So we have 4 observations, then we take average of these four rates.
Simon Wang: To become one… one rate as our estimate of the passenger arrival rate, which is 0.51.
Simon Wang: And then to generate new arrivals.
Simon Wang: Again, we use np.random to draw random numbers, but now we are following Poisson distribution.
Simon Wang: With this lambda rate, Times the, time interval.
Simon Wang: Where time interval for each time, it is also random. So it is drawn,
Simon Wang: Based on the previous normal distribution, based on the traveling time between the two bus stops.
Simon Wang: So now we have the number of people that will get on the bus.
Simon Wang: We also need to consider how many people will get off the bus.
Simon Wang: So that we can count the number of people on the bus.
Simon Wang: Then to divide the total number of seeds to calculate The seat utilization rate.
Simon Wang: So this, number of passengers getting off.
Simon Wang: Will be modeled using the so-called binomial distribution.
Simon Wang: So we have a total number of people on the bus, and we need a probability of getting off.
Simon Wang: And the average will be the number of people times the…
Simon Wang: Probability of getting off at each stop.
Simon Wang: So this is also, based on the, field study.
Simon Wang: So, the student really took the bus.
Simon Wang: And at each stop, he counted the number of people who got off the bus.
Simon Wang: So suppose this is, his observation.
Simon Wang: So still, at bus stop number 2,
Simon Wang: There are, in total, 10 people on the bus.
Simon Wang: But 4 of them alight.
Simon Wang: Then, for the next time, when he took this bus again.
Simon Wang: At bus stop number 2, there are 12 people on the bus.
Simon Wang: And 5 of them are light.
Simon Wang: So on and so forth.
Simon Wang: So, he had a record of
Simon Wang: The number of people alight at bus stop number 2 for several times.
Simon Wang: Then we could calculate the probability for each observation.
Simon Wang: And we just use the number of people who are lied.
Simon Wang: Divided by the number of people on the bus.
Simon Wang: So that… 4 divided by 10 is 0.4.
Simon Wang: 5 to 12 is 0.42, so on and so forth.
Simon Wang: And we can take average to calculate the probability of getting off.
Simon Wang: At bus stop number 2.
Simon Wang: And it turns out that this probability is 0.4.
Simon Wang: And then… We can draw a random number of passengers who get off, By, again, using np.random.
Simon Wang: But now, based on the binomial distribution.
Simon Wang: with the N, the total number of passengers on the bus, At that time.
Simon Wang: With the probability of a light.
Simon Wang: So these probabilities will be different for different stops.
Simon Wang: We could imagine that if… If the bus stop is the one near MTR,
Simon Wang: For the one-year aid, and, living… living area.
Simon Wang: Then people might… more people might get off.
Simon Wang: Because they want to go to the MPR station, or they want to go back home.
Simon Wang: But for some small stops, this probability of getting off might be small.
Simon Wang: Then we could use SynPy, so this is a library in Python.
Simon Wang: To set up this discrete event simulation framework.
Simon Wang: And each event represents a specific action. For example, we define bus arrival.
Simon Wang: as an action.
Simon Wang: Passenger boarding.
Simon Wang: fast departure after the world time. So these are all, action in this simulation.
Simon Wang: And events are perceived in a…
Simon Wang: Chronological order, according to their scheduled time, and only when they occur.
Simon Wang: So for certain, for example, when the bus is traveling.
Simon Wang: Because traveling is not an action, so…
Simon Wang: During that traveling time, the system, you would regard it as… it is paused.
Simon Wang: We will not consider the traveling time, but we just let the time pass during the bus traveling time, and define, how long the traveling time is.
Simon Wang: Yeah, I think I will quickly go through this typical SymPy structure.
Simon Wang: And then we will have a 10-minute break.
Simon Wang: And after that, we will, go to the Drupal notebook to… to have a demonstration about this Sympi structure.
Simon Wang: So overall, there are four steps, to set up this SymPy simulation.
Simon Wang: So the first step is to create a Simpli environment, And…
Simon Wang: Later in the demonstration, you will see this environment equals to sympi.environment.
Simon Wang: So, just set up.
Simon Wang: And then, a very important step.
Simon Wang: To set up this simulation is to define a generator function.
Simon Wang: So specifically, you will see DEFINE, this DEF, represents defined.
Simon Wang: And here, this generator function is called busTrip.
Simon Wang: So we want to simulate the, bus traveling from, from A to B.
Simon Wang: And within this parentheses, there are many arguments.
Simon Wang: And we can put all those, changing, elements in this simulation.
Simon Wang: within these parentheses.
Simon Wang: So, first of all, we have this environment we just created.
Simon Wang: And… Later, for example, if you want to run the simulation for many times.
Simon Wang: Then we can put the wrong number into this, into this, like, the definition of our generator function.
Simon Wang: And also, bus ID, so in this simulation, we only consider one bus.
Simon Wang: But we can also make it more complicated by adding more buses into our simulation system.
Simon Wang: So we can define bus ID here.
Simon Wang: And also, road configuration. Say, we want to consider both directions.
Simon Wang: Right, forward direction and backward.
Simon Wang: So then, for each, direction.
Simon Wang: then there will be a… be a label. So the label will also be, shown here.
Simon Wang: Within this generator function.
Simon Wang: And also, if we want to have the random component in our passenger.
Simon Wang: So it's not the case that for every stop, the number of passengers are the same.
Simon Wang: So if that… if there's variation of the passengers, then we can also, Define how these passenger numbers
Simon Wang: are different for different stops.
Simon Wang: Within this generator function.
Simon Wang: And then, we have this yield environment timeout.
Simon Wang: So basically, this… Tells the, simulation to pause, the whole process.
Simon Wang: For all the traveling time off the bus.
Simon Wang: Because… When the bus is traveling between two stops, that is not a specific action that we're interested.
Simon Wang: So for those traveling times, we just make the simulation.
Simon Wang: We pause it. We just let the time pass.
Simon Wang: For a specific duration.
Simon Wang: Right, and allow the simulated time to advance.
Simon Wang: Then, the next step is to add the generator function to a SynPy environment.
Simon Wang: So, recall that previously we defined this bus trip.
Simon Wang: Now we can put this bus trip into this environmental process.
Simon Wang: Then we kind of put the two together.
Simon Wang: We put the generator function into this.
Simon Wang: environment we created.
Simon Wang: And then the last stop is to run the simulation and let time pass. So that… that, can be implemented by this enviro… environment.run.
Simon Wang: So…
Simon Wang: As mentioned, let's have a 10-minute break, and after that, we will go to the demonstration and look… and have a closer look of how this
Simon Wang: Structure works.
Simon Wang: Okay, so let's resume.
Simon Wang: This demo Jupiter notebook can be found on Moodle.
Simon Wang: I think it's, in the, week 4,
Simon Wang: So once you click…
Simon Wang: this GCAP3226 week 4, it will be automatically downloaded. It will be a zip file, and after you unzip it, you will get this GCAP Week 4 demo.
Simon Wang: Jupyter Notebook.
Simon Wang: So if you click it… If you open it, remember to…
Simon Wang: Like, open the working directory, so that is, actually a good habit.
Simon Wang: So this is, not quite long. It contains two main parts.
Simon Wang: The first part is to see how we can generate some random numbers.
Simon Wang: for a given, parameters. So that is the first one, first part.
Simon Wang: and re… some…
Simon Wang: corresponding visualization, and then it will be the four-step structure to set up a simulation using Simpi.
Simon Wang: So, later in your own group project.
Simon Wang: If you decided to… to choose the public transportation-related topic.
Simon Wang: very likely you will use SymPy, but no worry if you are not clear with the details, because we always have this AI co-pilot to help us.
Simon Wang: To generate the code, as long as we are clear about what we want.
Simon Wang: Okay, so maybe let's start with this, random number generation.
Simon Wang: So first, it shows how to generate 100 random values of traveling time from a normal distribution.
Simon Wang: And specifically, I set the, mean equals to 3, and standard deviation equals to 0.3.
Simon Wang: So usually, I will set a seed before generating the random number, because
Simon Wang: Once I set this seed, I can always generate the same set of random values.
Simon Wang: So, for example, for this time, when I… when I use this np.random.normal.
Simon Wang: I set the mean equals to 3, and standard deviation equals to 0.3, and I want 100 of them.
Simon Wang: and I print the first 4 random values. I generate it, then it is this 4.
Simon Wang: And if I run it again, it will still be this 4.
Simon Wang: And if I run it again, it will be still this 4. So… once I set a seed.
Simon Wang: of these random numbers, for each time I generate, say, 100 random numbers, these 100 numbers
Simon Wang: Are always the same.
Simon Wang: So I can make my experiment reproducible.
Simon Wang: And here just shows a visualization of this 100 values.
Simon Wang: So here it calculates the, some key, summary statistics of this 100 data points.
Simon Wang: So although I set the mean equals to 3, empirically.
Simon Wang: the average of this 100 random values, it turns out to be 3.019. So it's not exactly the same as 3, but pretty close to 3.
Simon Wang: And also the standard deviations. Although I set it as 0.3,
Simon Wang: The empirical value of the standard deviation of these 100 data points is 0.288.
Simon Wang: And some other key, summary statistics, the quartiles.
Simon Wang: And the minimum and maximum value, which are not the, not extreme values.
Simon Wang: So because the traveling time is a continuous variable.
Simon Wang: So this is, like, the, the distance between
Simon Wang: The, participant's house and the nearest recycling facility.
Simon Wang: So this is, an example of continuous variable.
Simon Wang: It is not like the level of support, which can only take 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, right?
Simon Wang: Because the traveling time is continuous, it is appropriate to use either a histogram.
Simon Wang: And the box and whisker plot to visualize its distribution.
Simon Wang: So I just, asked the GitHub co-pilot to generate some code to, to plot the histogram, which shows the overall
Simon Wang: distribution.
Simon Wang: And also the box and whisper plot.
Simon Wang: And it turns out that we can see on the left-hand side, this shape looks
Simon Wang: Like a normal distribution, which is, like, bell shape, and symmetric, and only has one peak, which is the center of this normal distribution.
Simon Wang: And this vertical line is the actual mean of the data. As mentioned, it's 3.019.
Simon Wang: And on the right-hand side, this plot is called the box and whisker plot.
Simon Wang: So maybe I briefly talk about it, because later, when we summarize the result of simulation, you will meet this box and whisker plot again.
Simon Wang: So suppose I have a sequence of data, so from 5 to 7 to 10, 5, 15, so on and so forth, until 25.
Simon Wang: So in total, I have 19, this kind of data points.
Simon Wang: And you may have already noticed that these data points are, sorted.
Simon Wang: By an ascending order, so… They are increasing.
Simon Wang: Right.
Simon Wang: So this box and whisker plot can be used to visualize the overall distribution of data.
Simon Wang: And the way I do it is to find the so-called median first.
Simon Wang: So the median is the data point
Simon Wang: Which sits in the middle of the sorted dataset.
Simon Wang: So now we have 19 data points.
Simon Wang: And the one sees in the middle will be the tens data point.
Simon Wang: And I can actually verify this by directly, Type the, formula in Excel.
Simon Wang: The median of this set of data.
Simon Wang: Will be 23.
Simon Wang: So here.
Simon Wang: Because 23 sits in the middle.
Simon Wang: of these data points. It sits
Simon Wang: Like, it is from here, above this.
Simon Wang: 23, there are, like, around 25%, sorry, 50% of the data.
Simon Wang: So it's about 10, 9 data points.
Simon Wang: And also, under this 23, there are another 9 data points.
Simon Wang: So 23 is the median of the data.
Simon Wang: So later, it will be shown as the, this… Horizontal bar in the… box.
Simon Wang: So this is the box.
Simon Wang: So then, what… what are these Q1 and Q3? Well, Q1 and Q1, you may regard it as the
Simon Wang: The value sits in the middle of the first 50% of data.
Simon Wang: So now there are 9 data points here, right? So the one sits in the middle will be the 5th data point. That will be 19.
Simon Wang: Because above 19, there are 4 data points, and…
Simon Wang: Under this, under 19, there are also, like, 4 data points.
Simon Wang: We can also use the formula in Excel to verify this.
Simon Wang: So median is, like, the… around 50% of the data.
Simon Wang: Then Q1 is around 25% of the data.
Simon Wang: And similarly, Q3 is the 75% of the data.
Simon Wang: And it turns out to be 24.
Simon Wang: And once we got Q3 and Q1, we could calculate the interquartile range.
Simon Wang: Where we use Q3 to minus Q1.
Simon Wang: So that is the height of this box.
Simon Wang: Right? The height represents the range of the middle 50% of the data.
Simon Wang: And based on this, we can calculate the so-called upper and lower inner fence to define outliers.
Simon Wang: So this upper interference is Q3, Plus…
Simon Wang: 1.5 times its IQR.
Simon Wang: Whereas the lower interference is Q1 minus 1.5.
Simon Wang: times… IQR.
Simon Wang: So these are the, like, the thresholds
Simon Wang: To determine whether any data are outliers.
Simon Wang: It turns out that The smallest data point in our data is 5, which is smaller.
Simon Wang: than the lower interference, 11.5. So 5 will be regarded as an outlier.
Simon Wang: Similarly, for 7th, And also 10. So these three data points will be regarded as outlier.
Simon Wang: Then the whisker.
Simon Wang: The whisker at the bottom.
Simon Wang: We'll only reach the non-outlier minimum value.
Simon Wang: That means… Given the first three data points are outlier, The whisker will stretch to 15.
Simon Wang: So that will, that is what this,
Simon Wang: Box and Whisker plot will look like.
Simon Wang: the minimum… The minimum will be…
Simon Wang: I mean, the minimum of, now, outlier.
Simon Wang: will be… 15.
Simon Wang: Whereas for the, maximum, Because…
Simon Wang: The largest value in our dataset is 25, and it is less than this threshold.
Simon Wang: So this is the, non-outlier maximum.
Simon Wang: So the maximum will be 25.
Simon Wang: And the mean will be just the average.
Simon Wang: And if we want to generate the box and whisker plot for this kind of data, we can easily insert
Simon Wang: A box and whisker plot like this.
Simon Wang: So you can see that there are three dots.
Simon Wang: under this box.
Simon Wang: And these three data points are those outliers, because their values are smaller than the lower interference.
Simon Wang: So these are defined as outliers.
Simon Wang: And the whisker.
Simon Wang: Under this box, we'll reach 15, which is the, which is the smallest outlier in our dataset.
Simon Wang: And for the upper whisker.
Simon Wang: 25 is already the largest non-outlier, so for the upper whisker, it will only reach 25.
Simon Wang: So, in this way, we can also observe that the media, which is the horizontal line inside this box.
Simon Wang: is much closer to this Q3.
Simon Wang: Compared to Q1. So Q1 is the… Is where…
Simon Wang: The bottom of this box corresponds to…
Simon Wang: It is because in our data for the media.
Simon Wang: median is 23, and Q3 is 24. So these two values are quite close.
Simon Wang: With each other… with each other, compared to…
Simon Wang: the distance between Q2, the median, and Q1. So, here the distance is 4.
Simon Wang: Whereas the distance between Q2 and Q3 is only 1.
Simon Wang: So that corresponds to this key summary statistics, calculated based on our data.
Simon Wang: So similarly here, you can see that
Simon Wang: We just generated 100 random values.
Simon Wang: And we can also use this box and whisker plot to show this distribution.
Simon Wang: And this box shows, again, the middle 50% of the data.
Simon Wang: So the range is between, like, 2.8… 1, or 2.82, to 3.2… 4 or 2, 5.
Simon Wang: Where this orange horizontal line represents the immediate.
Simon Wang: And this dashed red line represents the amine.
Simon Wang: So there's no outliers.
Simon Wang: For this randomly drawn, random numbers.
Simon Wang: Based on normal distribution.
Simon Wang: So that's the first visualization part.
Simon Wang: And then the second part is the, our… like… Backbone of simulation.
Simon Wang: So that four-step structure.
Simon Wang: If you have not installed the SymPy package, maybe you could use the, Like, the percentage… PIP…
Simon Wang: install.
Simon Wang: Simpai.
Simon Wang: Maybe you could run this.
Simon Wang: Maybe I add a new code cell.
Simon Wang: So… now my cursor is at this four-step structure, then I can add a cold cell.
Simon Wang: And I can… Paste this command.
Simon Wang: in this new, newly created, code cell to install the SymPy package.
Simon Wang: And once we… once we create, once we have installed this SymPy package, we can import it and then follow the fourth step.
Simon Wang: say, create a SimPai environment, So I think I've already typed this into the demonstration notebook.
Simon Wang: So once you install the SymPy library, you can just run the cells.
Simon Wang: So it says the environment created and current time is 0. So we are starting at time 0.
Simon Wang: And then, step two will be exactly the same as, what we have seen on the lecture notes.
Simon Wang: In the lecture notes, So we define this generator function.
Simon Wang: Which is called Bus Trip.
Simon Wang: And put the environment in it, so the environment is created in Step 1.
Simon Wang: I want to, I want to simulate a bus trip from stop A to stop B,
Simon Wang: And record the current simulation time for departure.
Simon Wang: So here, the departure time should be zero. I… I set out at time 0.
Simon Wang: And then travel for 3 minutes.
Simon Wang: So, I just let time pass in the simulation.
Simon Wang: So yield is a very important component in our generator function.
Simon Wang: Here, these 3 can be 3 minutes, or can be 3 seconds, or can be 3 hours. We can define it, by ourself.
Simon Wang: And then, after, The system has…
Simon Wang: has run for 3 minutes, then the bus arrives at this bus stop B.
Simon Wang: So then I use this, environment.now to represent the arrival time.
Simon Wang: And I print out the bus arrival time.
Simon Wang: Then, the step 3 will be adding the generator function to a SynPy environment.
Simon Wang: So that involved this environmental process.
Simon Wang: and I put my generator function, this bus stop.
Simon Wang: With the only argument environment here.
Simon Wang: To this process.
Simon Wang: So by doing this, I add my generator function to this SymPy environment.
Simon Wang: I think I can run it.
Simon Wang: And the last step will be run the simulation and let time pass. So start simulation…
Simon Wang: Environment.run, and then print simulation completed, final time.
Simon Wang: So in this simulation, because there's no random component.
Simon Wang: I just want to simulate a bus running from stop A
Simon Wang: After 3 minutes to arrive at stop B.
Simon Wang: So this can be, like, implemented using this, simpai.
Simon Wang: And the last cell is about adding certain random components.
Simon Wang: And I decided to increase my traveling time to 100 tons.
Simon Wang: 100 runs.
Simon Wang: So now, when I define my generator function, In addition to this environment.
Simon Wang: I also have this wrong number.
Simon Wang: So now my generator function is called busTripRandom, with certain random component.
Simon Wang: I want to make the traveling time to be, drawn from a normal distribution.
Simon Wang: So here, you can see that generates random traveling time.
Simon Wang: From normal distribution, it was mean equals to 3, and standard deviation equals to 0.3.
Simon Wang: And also, I need to make sure that the traveling time drawn from this normal distribution must be a positive number.
Simon Wang: So, although it is very unlikely that
Simon Wang: I draw a random value from this normal distribution, the output will be negative.
Simon Wang: But… I need to, like,
Simon Wang: control this extreme case. I don't want this extreme case to happen.
Simon Wang: So… I have this function to make it a maximum value between 0.1,
Simon Wang: So this small value is already quite unlikely.
Simon Wang: And my travel time.
Simon Wang: So even…
Simon Wang: I really draw a negative value from this normal distribution. By doing this, I can still take a positive value for my traveling time.
Simon Wang: Then, similarly, for the drone traveling time,
Simon Wang: I use this environment.timeout to pause the whole process.
Simon Wang: And then, record the arrival time.
Simon Wang: Then, for each time, I append the new result into my result, list.
Simon Wang: I run 100 simulations.
Simon Wang: And record the output.
Simon Wang: So if we run this, if we run this cell.
Simon Wang: The output will be, like, for run 1, the bus departs at time 0.
Simon Wang: And bus arrive at times 3.1.
Simon Wang: So the traveling time is actually 3.15 minutes.
Simon Wang: So on and so forth. So you can see that in these 100 simulations, for the traveling time, each time is, is slightly different.
Simon Wang: They are all drawn from the same normal distribution, but there are certain variation of the traveling time.
Simon Wang: And also, if I take average of this traveling time, it turns out to be 2.97 minutes, and with minimum, maximum.
Simon Wang: And expected values.
Simon Wang: Okay.
Simon Wang: I think India… Group project implementation.
Simon Wang: You can always discuss with the,
Simon Wang: GitHub Copilot about this, these parameters.
Simon Wang: And how to… Reasonably set these parameters based on your field observations.
Simon Wang: And for the, code, I think still the GitHub Copilot can finish most of the… most of the code.
Simon Wang: But just make sure that once the code is generated, take a look, take a very brief look.
Simon Wang: Of those codes, and you can even ask
Simon Wang: the Hub Copilot to explain those code
Simon Wang: block by block to you, and you could check whether, the… the logic or the structure is correct.
Simon Wang: And here comes the results of the simulation for this bus number 56.
Simon Wang: So, overall, it runs, like, 1,000 times of simulations, and for each Stop.
Simon Wang: the seat utilization rate are different. So for each bus stop, you can see this bus box and whisker plot.
Simon Wang: And the median of the seed utilization rate will be between 12% to 34%.
Simon Wang: So it's actually, less,
Simon Wang: it's not uniformly less than 32%, because originally it's, like, 32%, right? And…
Simon Wang: the, bus company and also TD would like to decrease the seat utilization rate by, adjusting the,
Simon Wang: Improving the bus frequency.
Simon Wang: So this is the after adjustment, and the operation direction is forward, to Shenzhou.
Simon Wang: And this is the, let me see, this is the, return direction, so to… turn on.
Simon Wang: You can see that the median of seat utilization Is 5% to 34%.
Simon Wang: So, so here, there's quite difference
Simon Wang: for each… I mean, the city utilization rate for different stops are actually quite different.
Simon Wang: So this kind of highlighted, the importance of
Simon Wang: Having a clear definition or explanation of that 32%.
Simon Wang: Is that 32% an average, or it's a typical stop?
Simon Wang: in this direction.
Simon Wang: I think, the bus company or TD should
Simon Wang: clarify about the meaning of that 32%.
Simon Wang: And, before the adjustment, because there are two bus stops that, do not… that did not exist.
Simon Wang: So we do have, certain assumptions for the passenger flow data.
Simon Wang: For these two bus stops.
Simon Wang: And before the adjustment, it is calculated that the median of seat utilization rate for these bus stops will be between 80% to 56%.
Simon Wang: So this means that after the adjustment, the median of seed utilization rate indeed decreased.
Simon Wang: And this is also before the adjustment.
Simon Wang: There's one, like,
Simon Wang: disappeared bus stop right now. So for this bus stop, we also have certain assumptions about passenger flow data.
Simon Wang: And it turns out that the median of seed utilization rate is between 8%
Simon Wang: So for this, at the very beginning and at the end.
Simon Wang: The bus… the, city utilization rate is quite low, whereas for the, Stops in the middle.
Simon Wang: Especially the, the one year, the MTR station.
Simon Wang: The bus utilization… the seat utilization rate is quite high.
Simon Wang: So overall, the summary of the results shows that the adjustment appears to have reduced the overall seed utilization rate.
Simon Wang: I think this also makes sense, because when the… Frequency of buzz increases.
Simon Wang: The overall seed utilization rate should decrease.
Simon Wang: Right.
Simon Wang: But the decision to increase bus frequency should also be analyzed from the perspective of operating costs.
Simon Wang: So, with the increase of the, the operating frequency.
Simon Wang: The bus company will need to hire, say, at least one more captain to drive the bus.
Simon Wang: And also, the, overall, the, traveling will, will…
Simon Wang: Need the, the cost of fuel, right?
Simon Wang: So whether it is, like, cost-effective to To increase the frequency.
Simon Wang: The bus company also needs to consider from… from the cost perspective.
Simon Wang: So finally, this study,
Simon Wang: confirmed and generalized the three points that we want to, have this inquire… inquiry to the transport department.
Simon Wang: So, for the operational and passenger flow data.
Simon Wang: Were there any operational and passenger flow data collected and analyzed?
Simon Wang: When they assess the rerouting and schedule changes for this bus number 56,
Simon Wang: And also, whether they have done any service quality evaluation. So, did they use any quantitative models or criteria to evaluate whether the service modification
Simon Wang: Would maintain or improve passenger service quality.
Simon Wang: And the last point is about the data acceptability. So, if they have already collected the irrelevant operational data sets.
Simon Wang: Then can they make it available for public or for academic review?
Simon Wang: So these are all, like, key questions once we finish this analysis, simulation analysis for this bus number 56.
Simon Wang: So hopefully it's through this, case study, you have a, like, brief
Simon Wang: Understanding about what simulation study is, and under what circumstances it is appropriate to use it.
Simon Wang: to, to generate the, some analysis results.
Simon Wang: I think…
Simon Wang: We may move on to the, in-class exercise, too. I think for this in-class exercise, the content is not…
Simon Wang: That much compared to the previous one. We only have 3 small questions.
Simon Wang: And again, feel free to ask help from GitHub Copilot to work on these, three tasks.
Simon Wang: And part of the code has already… Been ready, so I think…
Simon Wang: Half an hour, and for the remaining time, maybe we can
Simon Wang: Decide the, group of our… project.